URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/china-adviser-says-time-running-095143868.html
제목: Yahoo Finance
작성자: Bloomberg News
게시일: Upcoming
추출일: 2025-07-05T00:15:49.904860

==================================================

China Adviser Says Time ‘Running Out’ to Set Up Xi-Trump Meeting

China Adviser Says Time ‘Running Out’ to Set Up Xi-Trump Meeting

Bloomberg News   Fri, July 4, 2025 at 6:51 PM GMT+9 3 min read

Bloomberg News   Fri, July 4, 2025 at 6:51 PM GMT+9 3 min read

Bloomberg News   Fri, July 4, 2025 at 6:51 PM GMT+9 3 min read

Bloomberg News

Fri, July 4, 2025 at 6:51 PM GMT+9 3 min read

by Taboolaby TaboolaYou May LikeBuy the Dip: 5 AI Stocks With Strong Growth PotentialSeeking Alpha • AdAdLearn MoreUndo

by Taboolaby TaboolaYou May LikeBuy the Dip: 5 AI Stocks With Strong Growth PotentialSeeking Alpha • AdAdLearn MoreUndo

by Taboolaby TaboolaYou May LikeBuy the Dip: 5 AI Stocks With Strong Growth PotentialSeeking Alpha • AdAdLearn MoreUndo

by Taboolaby TaboolaYou May LikeBuy the Dip: 5 AI Stocks With Strong Growth PotentialSeeking Alpha • AdAdLearn MoreUndo

by Taboolaby TaboolaYou May Like

by Taboolaby Taboola

by Taboolaby Taboola

Buy the Dip: 5 AI Stocks With Strong Growth PotentialSeeking Alpha • AdAdLearn MoreUndo

Buy the Dip: 5 AI Stocks With Strong Growth PotentialSeeking Alpha • AdAdLearn MoreUndo

Buy the Dip: 5 AI Stocks With Strong Growth PotentialSeeking Alpha • AdAdLearn MoreUndo

Buy the Dip: 5 AI Stocks With Strong Growth PotentialSeeking Alpha • AdAdLearn MoreUndo

(Bloomberg) -- The US and China need to pick up the pace of preparations if a leaders’ summit is to take place in the fall, according to an adviser to the Foreign Ministry in Beijing, drawing attention to the tight timeline facing the two countries in pursuing better ties.

Most Read from Bloomberg

Foreign Buyers Swoop on Cape Town Homes, Pricing Out Locals

NYC Commutes Resume After Midtown Bus Terminal Crash Chaos

Struggling Downtowns Are Looking to Lure New Crowds

What Gothenburg Got Out of Congestion Pricing

“If we are going to make this happen, we need to make preparations as soon as possible, and time is running out,” Wu Xinbo, director at Fudan University’s Center for American Studies in Shanghai, said on Friday.

“In the last one week, I have seen tangible progress by both sides, Beijing and Washington, in delivering what they promised to deliver,” Wu said, referring to a trade truce recently struck by the two countries.

“So that is quite a positive sign that finally we get the ball rolling,” added Wu, who last year led a group of experts in the ministry to meet politicians and business executives in the US.

Signs emerged in recent weeks that both sides are beginning to deliver on their promises. Chinese rare earth magnets are flowing, although not quite to the levels seen before Beijing implemented export curbs in early April, Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said this week. Washington has lifted recent export license requirements for chip design software sales in China, and approved American ethane exports to the Asian nation without additional approvals.

Trump’s administration is meanwhile reaching out to business executives to weigh interest in accompanying him on a possible trip to China this year, according to people familiar with the matter. When asked for comment, White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said that a visit to China hasn’t been scheduled at this point.

Story Continues

Wu’s comments, made on a panel during the World Peace Forum in Beijing, came a day after a senior Chinese official, Liu Jianchao, expressed optimism over the future of China’s ties with the US.While calling a war between the two countries “unimaginable,” Liu highlighted Taiwan and the South China Sea as possible flashpoints.Given Trump’s expressed desire to meet with Xi in China this year, the two sides need to move more quickly to make that happen, according to Wu.Wu said a trip to South Korea for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in October could also provide an opportunity for the Republican to visit China.A next step will involve broadening discussion channels between Beijing and Washington beyond trade-focused officials to include other parts of government, including the diplomatic corps and law enforcement agencies.“You cannot just let the two economic teams arrange for the state visit — for the summit,” Wu said. Now is the time for Wang Yi to meet with his counterpart,” he added, referring to China’s foreign minister.The Shanghai-based expert on US-China relations said Trump should do two things during his visit to Beijing: clearly state that China is America’s most important commercial partner; and re-affirm that the US doesn’t support Taiwan’s independence and favors “China’s peaceful reunification.”“Trump, he’s a smarty guy,” said Wu. “He knows how to make a big deal for the sake of US national interests. He will say the right thing when he’s in Beijing.”Most Read from Bloomberg BusinessweekSNAP Cuts in Big Tax Bill Will Hit a Lot of Trump Voters Too America’s Top Consumer-Sentiment Economist Is Worried For Brazil’s Criminals, Coffee Beans Are the Target How to Steal a House China’s Homegrown Jewelry Superstar ©2025 Bloomberg L.P.

Wu’s comments, made on a panel during the World Peace Forum in Beijing, came a day after a senior Chinese official, Liu Jianchao, expressed optimism over the future of China’s ties with the US.

While calling a war between the two countries “unimaginable,” Liu highlighted Taiwan and the South China Sea as possible flashpoints.

Given Trump’s expressed desire to meet with Xi in China this year, the two sides need to move more quickly to make that happen, according to Wu.

Wu said a trip to South Korea for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in October could also provide an opportunity for the Republican to visit China.

A next step will involve broadening discussion channels between Beijing and Washington beyond trade-focused officials to include other parts of government, including the diplomatic corps and law enforcement agencies.

“You cannot just let the two economic teams arrange for the state visit — for the summit,” Wu said. Now is the time for Wang Yi to meet with his counterpart,” he added, referring to China’s foreign minister.

The Shanghai-based expert on US-China relations said Trump should do two things during his visit to Beijing: clearly state that China is America’s most important commercial partner; and re-affirm that the US doesn’t support Taiwan’s independence and favors “China’s peaceful reunification.”

“Trump, he’s a smarty guy,” said Wu. “He knows how to make a big deal for the sake of US national interests. He will say the right thing when he’s in Beijing.”

Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek

SNAP Cuts in Big Tax Bill Will Hit a Lot of Trump Voters Too

America’s Top Consumer-Sentiment Economist Is Worried

For Brazil’s Criminals, Coffee Beans Are the Target

How to Steal a House

China’s Homegrown Jewelry Superstar

©2025 Bloomberg L.P.

Terms  and Privacy Policy

Privacy Dashboard

